The President:
Here's the truth about today's
economy: If we're serious about
fighting for American jobs
and American businesses,
one of the most important things
we can do is open up more
markets to American
goods around the world.
That's why I met with China's
President Hu Jintao at the White
House this past week.
We're now exporting more than
$100 billion a year to China in
goods and services.
And as a result of deals
we completed this week,
we'll be increasing U.S.
exports to China by more than
$45 billion, and China's
investment in America by
several billion dollars.
Most important, these deals will
support some 235,000 American jobs.
And that includes a lot
of manufacturing jobs.
That goal is why I fought so
hard to negotiate a new and
better trade deal
with South Korea --
a deal with unprecedented
support from business and labor
-- that will support more
than 70,000 American jobs.
And that's why I traveled to
India last fall to help pave the
way for $10 billion in new deals
for American businesses and more
than 50,000 new American jobs.
Now, these may just
sound like statistics.
But yesterday, I saw what that
means firsthand when I traveled
to a GE plant in
Schenectady, New York.
This plant is manufacturing
steam turbines and generators
for a big project in India
that resulted from a deal we
announced around that trip --
a project that is helping to
support more than 1,200
manufacturing jobs and more than
400 engineering
jobs in Schenectady.
Good jobs at good wages, producing
American products for the world.
At the same time, GE has also
been investing in innovation,
building a clean energy
center, an advanced battery
manufacturing plant, and other
state-of-the-art facilities in
Schenectady that are resulting
in hundreds of new American jobs
and contributing to America's
global economic leadership.
Leading the world in innovation.
Opening new markets
to American products.
That's how we'll
create jobs today.
That's how we'll make America
more competitive tomorrow.
And that's how we're
going to win the future.
Now, while I was in Schenectady,
I announced that Jeff Immelt,
GE's CEO and one of the most
imaginative and visionary
business leaders in America,
has agreed to head up our new
Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness.
The purpose of this council is
to help us find ways to grow our
economy by investing in our
businesses here at home.
And under Jeff's leadership, I'm
confident that they'll generate
good ideas about how
we can spur hiring,
educate our workers to
compete in the 21st century,
and attract the best jobs and
businesses to America rather
than seeing them
spring up overseas.
We're living in a new
and challenging time,
in which technology has made
competition easier and fiercer
than ever before.
Countries around the world are
upping their game and giving
their workers and companies
every advantage possible.
That shouldn't discourage us.
Because I know we can
win that competition.
I know we can out-compete
any other nation on Earth.
We just have to make sure we're
doing everything we can to
unlock the productivity
of American workers,
unleash the ingenuity
of American businesses,
and harness the dynamism
of America's economy.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.